From: Martin Newell
Date: Sun, 7 Jun 2026 13:28 -0700
Subject: Re: Teapot figures
To: Cem Yuksel

That makes sense. I actually took a look at my dissertation, which jogged a few memories of this. There were two PDP-10 mainframe computers in the machine room, one was timesharing to support the CS department. The other was "single user" for use in graphics research with just 64K of memory, like an early version of a personal computer. The film recorder was attached to the single user PDP-10, possibly via the "Watkins Box" built before my time by Gary Watkins, which was a hardware device for generating shaded images, perhaps the earliest "graphics proccessor".For my thesis work I used both of the PDP-10s. Images were assembled in a frame store that was implemented on disk, paged into memory as needed. This could be done on the time-shared PDP10, then transferred to the single-user machine for rendering to film.

Warning: ramble follows.

Cem, you mentioned earlier an interest in how images were produced before personal computers, graphics processors, internet and the like.

When I was at the CAD Centre, 1968-1972, before going to Utah, we had a small PDP-9 computer connected to a time-shared Atlas computer for the relatively heavy lifting. The PDP-9 had a line generating unit that could steer a cathode ray beam around the face of a relatively large display tube to draw lines, not raster scan. It had only 8 grey levels, so we modified the hardware to support , I think, 64 grey levels, and to interpolate shade as well as x and y . The 8K of 18 bit words was nowhere near enough memory to store a raster image. So we run-length encoded each raster line of the image into segments of constant shade. To draw a shaded image we generated a display file comprising these horizontal segments and gave it to the line generator. It would take several seconds to complete one pass over the image, so although you could see it on the screen it was hard to tell what you had. So we used a Polaroid camera mounted on a pyramidal hood that fitted over the screen, to block ambient light. Then we opened the shutter on the camera for several display cycles to record the image on film. Color images involved three exposures through colored filters. There was lots of blue light so only a few frames were needed. Green required more frames to be exposed. But there was almost no red light from the display, so the red phase required hundreds of display frames to get sufficient exposure. Most of our images had only very small red objects, like the candle in the Xmas card image I sent you. The interpoation of shade along a segment allowed us to implement Gouraud-style shading.

Given the run-length coded format, I wrote an early version of a depth buffer, before pixel-based depth buffers became feasible. Instead of storing pixels that had z-depth and color, it stored horizontal segments that had x, z and color at the beginning and at the end of each horizontal segment. A stored image was generated by scan converting objects in any order, and presenting the resulting segments to the update algorithm, just as you would with a depth buffer. However the update algorithm was very different. It involved going through the existing sements on a scan line to find out where the new segment fitted in, and resolving occlusions based on depth, as well as transparency. It could also handle intersecting surfaces by appropriately subdividing the segments. This allowed us to get a resolution of 512 x 512 pixels in 8K memory along with the supporting software, though the complexity of the image was limited, unlike with a pixel-based depth buffer.

Ramble over.

Martin
----------------------------------------
