                        THE BOULDER SOFTWARE TOOLS AND USENIX MEETINGS IN SUMMARY



                                    SOFTWARE TOOLS and USENIX Meetings
                                            Boulder, Colorado
                                      January 28 -- February 2, 1980


                    This report is a summary of two winter meetings held in Boulder.
It is based on notes and memories of the attendees listed below, and as such reflects our personal biases
and knowledge.  Extensive detail has been deliberately avoided, in the hopes of keeping these notes
down to a reasonable size.

In general, there is rapid growth in the size of both these users groups; there were 450 attendees at
the USENIX meeting, which is the largest attendance yet.  For the Software tools group this is apparent
in sheer numbers, as well as in the formation of SIG's to deal with issues in specific subject matter
areas and geographic regions.  There is a strong cooperative attitude within this community, which will
soon result in two new software distributions, and an informal UNIX network for mail and news.  We
have also noted a trend towards more formal reporting of technical information.  The next USENIX
meeting will publish a proceedings, and individuals are encouraged to send in short articles for
publication in the newsletters.  It is important that reviews of bug fixes, performance considerations,
and available software be produced periodically, to help fill the growing gap between experienced hacks
and new users.

We cannot guarantee that what is reported here was actually said.  If you want to be SURE, or need
more information, check with the speaker in question.  Our apologies to anyone who has been
misquoted.

Our thanks to many persons who made informative presentations at the meetings.  Further thanks
to David Sherman, whose notes and macros from last June's conference made easy the production of
these notes.


February 5, 1980

Martin Tuori
Defence and Civil Institute of Environmental Medicine
(DCIEM)
Downsview, Canada MJM 3M9
(416) 633-4240 Ext 204

Gregory Hill
University of Toronto Computer Services, SF105
University of Toronto
Toronto, Canada M55 1A1
(416) 978-8855

Ian Johnstone     Formerly University of New South Wales
Bell Laboratories
600 Mountain Ave
Rm 7E-307
Murray Hill NJ 07974
(201) 582-5767





                                              - 1 -
